[MUSIC PLAYING]
>> Well, of course, my
father worked this all out.
And he basically
worked out a treatment
that would deal with the
most seriously ill patients.
But he also helped people
who were not that ill.
Basically, the problem of all
chronic disease, he found,
is a dual problem.
Namely, it's toxicity
and deficiency.
That goes for all
chronic diseases.
And one of the major problems
is, of course, the soil
and what we do to the soil,
and the air, and the water,
and everything we
take in our food.
So while, naturally, alcohol,
and cigarettes, and all
these things are very
serious damaging to the body,
it isn't only that.
It starts with the soil, and,
therefore, with the basic foods
we start to eat
as small children,
and that mothers
eat while they're
pregnant, and the toxins
that go into the system.
The so-called fertilizer,
so-called artificial
fertilizer, is made up of
three, mainly three minerals--
N, P, K-- nitrogen,
phosphorus, and potassium.
Well, that's nice.
But the problem is that the
soil requires approximately 52
different minerals.
So where's the calcium,
and the magnesium,
and the manganese, and
the zinc, and the iron,
and all of the other
things I can't mention?
They're missing.
And plants have
their own defenses.
They have defenses
against disease.
against attackers,
including bugs, and
fungus, and so on.
But when the soil is
deficient, the plants also
are deficient and weakened,
and they lose their defenses.
And the bugs come
and attack them.
And the disease, the
fungus and other disease,
comes and attacks them.
So now, they come crying
to the pharmaceutical,
the chemical companies, and
say, well, our plants are dying,
and they won't grow, and we
have pests, and the pests--
or whatever.
And of course, the
chemical companies
are terribly happy to sell them
pesticides, and fungicides,
and growth stimulants, and
all kinds of other things.
So what we are
getting, even if we
eat just commercial
vegetarian food,
we get deficient, toxic food.
Because with all these
pesticides, and chemicals,
and sprays, and all of that,
the food is not healthy,
and it's deficient.
So we can't help but
be deficient and toxic.
And then on top of that
comes the food processing.
And in food processing, they
don't just heat the food.
But they add emulsifiers, and
dyes, and flavor enhancers,
and all kinds of
chemicals, something
like 10,000 chemicals
that are approved
by our FDA, the Food and Drug
Administration, as being safe.
None of them are safe.
There is no such thing
as chemicals you can
take every day that are safe.
It's not true.
Every once in a while, they find
that one is particularly bad,
and then they replace it as
soon as they have another one,
they replace that one.
But usually, the
next one is worse.
That was with the
famous dye number two,
the red number two
was highly toxic.
But they didn't take
it off the market--
they knew it was toxic--
they didn't take it off
until the chemical company
had developed red number five,
and it's worse.
So we get all these additives
to the already deficient damaged
foods, so that unless we
insist on eating organic, where
the soil is treated
like it should be,
the natural waste materials
are put back into the soil
and sometimes things
like minerals--
it happens that one of the best
minerals to put into the soil
is ground granite.
So where do you
get ground granite?
Very simple.
The places that
grind headstones.
They use granite
stone, and they have
a lot of powder lying around.
And they're very
happy to give it
to you for you to take it away.
They're very happy.
They found this largely, also,
when, in Oregon, Mount St.
Helens erupted.
And you may have heard or
known that for numerous weeks,
Mount St. Helen was spitting
ashes, and ashes, and ashes.
And for a while,
the ashes built up
to the point of
several feet of height,
and the farmers thought
they'd lost their soil.
On the contrary.
For instance, apple trees
that had been growing
and had little apples,
worm eaten and useless,
they were growing the
nicest, biggest apples,
not a worm inside.
And the cabbages were larger
than they'd ever seen,
great big heads of cabbage.
And their soil was
suddenly tremendously
powerful and fertile.
So of course, you can't
always go to Oregon
to pick up the dust there.
So a lot of people,
though, can go
to places near cemeteries
that grind headstones
and pick up the minerals.
So you can use what's left
over from your kitchen
from organic food, from
the organic juicing.
Theirs is already ground up.
You can compost that
together with some minerals,
and you have the best
compost in the world.
And you have, therefore,
then, healthy vegetables
that don't need chemicals.
They don't need sprays.
They don't need
pesticides because they
have their natural defenses
in place, like we have.
Normal human body
has powerful defenses
to the point where
cancer is impossible.
The human body has such powerful
defenses that a normal healthy
body cannot, will not develop
cancer or any other chronic
disease, for that matter.
Not only that, but with a
good, healthy, normal, rich
organic food, you can
reverse these diseases,
and that's what we do.
But the food alone
isn't the trick,
because you also have to
get rid of the poisons.
And coming back to the
original cause of all disease--
toxicity and deficiency--
we have to detoxify
and replenish.
We have to deal with
both these problems.
So just organic food is fine
and important, but isn't enough.
Because over the
years of toxicity,
of the fluoride in the
water and toothpaste,
of the chemicals in the
air, of toxins in the soil,
and in the foods,
and in the processed
foods, and the canned,
and jarred, and pickled,
and preserved, and
emulsified things,
we have accumulated
a lot of poisons.
Not me, so much, because I don't
eat such things for decades.
But most of the public.
And of course, we
always have to deal
with people who used to eat what
we call, or what is known as,
the Standard American
Diet, the SAD.
And yes, it's sad.
It's very bad.
And it promotes disease.
It promotes obesity.
And that's a very
interesting thing.
Why are so many--
including children, why
are people so obese?
I'm used to eating
all organic food.
All my vegetables and fruit and
everything I eat is organic.
I never, never eat
in a restaurant.
I buy nothing from the grocery
shelves unless it's organic.
I go to a special store that
has mainly, almost exclusively,
organic food.
I only buy and eat organic.
So I'm not toxic.
But most people, they don't
eat organic, are toxic.
And it's also
important to remember,
when the body gets all
these toxins fed into it,
it has to get rid of it.
But some of it, it just
simply can't excrete.
So it pushes it
out into fat cells,
into connective tissue
cells, into organ systems,
and various things.
The body gets rid of the
central organizing system.
But then when you stop feeding
the body all these chemicals,
it'll start to release them.
It'll let go.
I always try to compare it,
for people's imagination,
if a huge oil spill comes
at you from the ocean
or from wherever, and you
have a very powerful hose,
it can keep that oil
spill from coming to you.
But you shut off the
hose, it comes in.
Similarly, with all
the chemical poisons
in the system, with all
the poisons in the tissues,
in the fat cells, in
the connective tissue,
in the skin cells,
and all over the body,
not missing the
brain, these toxins,
when you stop pushing them into
the system, start to come out.
And actually, if you now
only change your diet
to the point of
eating all organic,
you are releasing
all these poisons.
They go into the bloodstream
and into the liver.
And unless you help the
liver get rid of it,
you can cause new damage.
It's a mistake.
It's a half a therapy.
The other half of the
therapy is detoxify.
And that, I believe, is my
father's greatest genius.
Not only did he
recognize toxicity,
not only did he see
that this toxicity was
blocking and damaging the body,
but he found a way to detoxify.
And that has not yet
registered, or, if it has,
doctors simply refuse to do it.
Because everything
they do is toxic.
Every drug they use,
prescription drug,
over-the-counter
drugs, all drugs
are liver toxic, bar none.
So when we start to
get these patients,
they're full of toxins.
We have to get the toxins out
to even allow the nutrients
to get into the tissues.
You can't get them in there
if they're full of poisons.
You can't get two
things into one space.
So the detoxifying is
absolutely of utter importance.
Now, in order to do that--
and this goes way
back to World War I--
in order to do that, my father
found that using caffeine
rectally opens--
travels up the hemorrhoidal
vein into the portal system
to the liver,
opens the viaducts,
and opens it all up so the
liver can let go, and it does.
And the patients are amazed.
A little bit
frightened sometimes
of the stuff they excrete.
Sometimes it's very black.
Often, it's extremely smelly.
It's very toxic,
a chemical smell.
Sometimes there are long strings
of stuff, the lining that's
dead of the intestinal
tract, all kinds of things,
and parasites.
They excrete it all.
It all comes out.
But it's better out than in.
But it's a bit scary.
Patients are a bit shocked and
scared to see all the stuff
they're harboring.
But then the pain goes away.
And that's one of the
most interesting effects
of these caffeine
implants that are simply
called coffee enemas that we
use and that overcome pain.
Virtually any pain,
including cancer pain,
including the pain of
people who have already
been put on patches,
morphine patches,
and codeine, and all kinds of
painkillers, heavy painkillers.
A few days of organic food, no
poisons, of detoxifying enemas,
and the pain goes away.
Advanced cancer pain goes
away, in almost all cases.
Now, there is always
some exceptions.
But in the majority of cases,
we can get rid of pain,
and it's very remarkable.
And of course, it
encourages patients.
They don't have to
take morphine anymore,
and codeine, and all these
heavy combinations of chemical
poisons.
They're beginning to function.
And healing begins.
It's only the beginning.
Another very important
thing to remember,
while a very large
majority of our patients
are cancer patients, the
Gerson therapy heals.
And very important
to remember is,
you cannot heal selectively.
If you truly heal,
everything heals.
If a patient comes, for
instance, not only with cancer,
but with high blood pressure,
and/or diabetes, and maybe
fibromyalgia and other
pains, and so on,
all the problems disappear.
You can't heal one disease
and keep two others.
It's impossible.
When the body heals,
it heals everything.
And that's why the Gerson
therapy is so effective.
And doctors, like
this doctor in Japan,
he demonstrated
a patient who had
four different types of cancer.
No drugs.
No chemo.
Nothing special.
One treatment, the body heals.
If you give it all the right
nutrients and detoxify it,
it functions, it
works, and it heals.
The body has what
my father called
has its own healing mechanism.
And he went further
and he said, it's
the doctor's duty to activate
and reactivate the body's
own healing mechanism.
And the patients heal.
And it doesn't matter
what you call the disease.
We get patients that are
seriously, seriously ill, not
generally the early patients.
An early patient has a
problem, goes to the doctor.
And the doctor diagnoses cancer.
Then come all the cancer
treatments, and the surgeries,
and the radiation,
and the chemo,
and all the additional damage
that these treatments do,
and the painkillers
and everything else.
And when the
patients are really,
really seriously ill and
begin to understand that
their doctors can't
help, making them worse,
and that they're dying-- often
the doctors have sent them
home, said, there's
nothing more we can do--
that's when we see them.
And we see the recoveries.
And it's very exciting.
That's the important thing.
But the problem is, they
come to the hospital,
usually, they don't stay
more than three weeks, which
is very good, it's
important, but you can't cure
advanced cancer in three weeks.
You have to totally
detoxify and rebuild
the body, all the essential
organ systems and all
the healing mechanism.
It takes two years,
which means that patients
have to carry on at home.
And that's largely my
job at the hospital.
I have to explain to
them what they're doing,
why they're doing
it, and how to do it.
And that's what we do.
[MUSIC PLAYING]